Braille should be offered the same protection as minority languages.  The issue of the protection of minority languages is a difficult one for most governments as it is usually argued that most speakers of such languages also make use of the dominant language and, where they don’t, they should learn for their own good. For example French speakers in Canada must also learn English. [i] However, there are senses and experiences that are uniquely held within a community and expressed within those languages. In many ways Braille functions in similar ways, a shared experience between those who read it, a bond between users and, for the most part, denied to outsiders. By its nature, it is tactile and speaks in a way that is not true of audiobooks prepared for a wider market. In purely practical terms there is relatively little difference between reading speeds in Braille and listening to audiobooks (about 130 against 150 wpm). [ii] Learning Braille also has immense practical benefits, not least of which is being employable, 90% of those who are braille literate are employed compared to 33% of blind people who are braille illiterate. [iii]  It seems simply strange to insist that those who have already lost one form of access to the wider world – indeed the method most widely used in that world – should be denied another simply because it is deemed to be cheaper, easier or ‘better for them’. Indeed such an action is deeply redolent of the debate over minority languages. Although not all of the blind community prefers to use Braille, many of them do and that would seem sufficient reason to respect it as an important way in which they interact with the world, and receive and impart ideas – the twin pillars of free speech [iv] .  [i] Burnaby, Barbara J., ‘Language Policy’, The Canadian Encyclopedia, 1996,   [ii] Reading Braille. RIDB Crenwick Centre.  [iii] Ouellette, Matthew David, ‘Low Cost, Compact Braille Printing Head For Use in Handheld Braille Transcribing Device’, Mechanical Engineering Master's Theses. Paper 41. p.2   [iv] Guidelines on the use of minority languages in the broadcast media. Minority Rights Group International.
